---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-10
published: true
labels:
  - WOD
---

*It wasn't until this point that I realized how thankful I am to have prior coding experience.*

Having prior knowledge and experience in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, I was able to complete the first three BrowserHistory WOD at Rx times in 1-2 tries. I completed the first WOD at Rx time on my first try, as it had little to no CSS formatting and no involvement of JavaScript. The second and third WOD, however, was completed at Av time on my first tries and Rx time on my second tries. For the second WOD, I struggled with placing the logos inline with the text and soon realized that I was overcomplicating the process by trying to execute code that was not yet covered in class. After I figured this out, I was able to easily complete BrowserHistory2 under Rx time. 

To be completely honest, I was humbled by BrowserHistory3. After being able to complete BrowserHistory1 and BrowserHistory2 with little to no issues, I thought that I could also easily complete BrowserHistory3. However, when it came to it, I ran into the same issues that many of my other classmates faced. The formatting of the three columns was puzzling because I initially applied padding to the center column, expecting that it would align with the others. Then, when my first attempt to format did not work, I tried to add more padding to the center column and less padding to the outer columns, which also did not work. When I deleted the paddings and sat back to think, I was frustrated because I could not figure out why the center column was at a different height than the outer columns despite them being at the same level with no padding or margins. Finally, I gave in and gave the three columns the same amount of padding, expecting it not to work. Little did I know, the three columns aligned perfectly. Up until now, I still am confused as to why the columns were at different height in the beginning, but I came to realize that I cannot 100% rely on my prior knowledge on how code works because it will make me ignorant and blindsided. 

I have not had to watch the screencasts yet, so I have yet to form an opinion on how to effectively utilize it. However, my advice for current and future ITM 352 students is to read the directions carefully before attempting the WOD. I found that reading through the instructions, planning the steps out in my head, and reviewing notes that corresponded to specific tasks helped me tremendously. Not only did I know ahead of time what I would need to do, but I also get a chance to refresh my memory of specific tags or attributes that I would need to execute. Also, W3School is your best friend. I am an avid supporter of utilizing the Internet because no one is expected to know code from the top of their head. Chances are, someone out there has faced the problem that you are currently facing and seeked help from online communities. That being said, I am not advocating for anyone to copy code from others, but to use the resources available to gain a better understand of their code and learn how to troubleshoot. 
