---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-25
published: true
labels:
  - WOD
---
##Summary of WODs
After completing BrowserHistory 1-3, I was much more comfortable moving forward with the WOD assignments. To start off, BrowserHistory6 was a continuation of the previous WODs. It was the beginning of the transition from simple HTML and CSS into working with DOM objects by using event listeners to create user-page interactions. Then, SmartPhoneProducts 1 With Variables was the first WOD that involved both internal and external JavaScript, mainly dealing with creating and displaying variables using document.write() rather than hard coding values. Following that, Invoice1 was a deeper dive into working with JS variables, expressions, and operators to create an invoice receipt. And Invoice2 was similar to Invoice1, but involved using conditional statements if, else if, and else. Finally, SmartPhoneProducts2 was a continuation of SmartPhoneProducts1 With Variables, but using a loop, template literals, and the eval() function to replace repetitive segments. 

###BrowserHistory6
As I was familiar and comfortable with HTML and CSS from prior experience, I was able to finish BrowserHistory6 at Rx time on my first try. I did not have any difficulties finishing this WOD, but I was glad to have had the chance to refresh my memories because it has been 4 to 5 years since I last worked with event listeners. I also, similarly to the previously WODs, read the instructions beforehand and planned the steps out in my head before attempting the workout. Something that I did differently with this WOD was to use Live Server and the Auto Save feature in VS Code. 

[Link to BrowserHistory6 repo](https://github.com/bvytr/ITM352_F22_repo/tree/main/WODs/BrowserHistory6)

###SmartPhoneProducts1 With Variables
SmartPhoneProducts1 With Variables was also relatively easy to complete and took me one try to achieve Rx time. I had no difficulties finishing this WOD, aside from a typo, a misplaced “>” character, that took me a minute or two to figure out. I did not do anything differently for this WOD. 

[Link to SmartPhoneProducts1 With Variables repo](https://github.com/bvytr/ITM352_F22_repo/tree/main/WODs/SmartPhoneProducts1_variables)

###Invoice1
Unlike before, it took me two attempts to complete Invoice1 at Rx time. My first attempt was at Av time because rather than using the Find and Replace function in VS Code, I manually changed the variable names, which was a time-consuming mistake. I also had difficulties in writing the document.write() due to continuous syntax errors involving misplaced single and double quotation marks, missing ending tags, etc. For my second attempt, I was able to learn from my mistakes and took my time to carefully go through my code. I would always write out both the opening and closing tags of an element, then place whatever was needed within those tags. I also had a moment where I had forgotten to fix the decimal places for the tax amount and ended up confusing myself because of my own variable naming (taxAmount and taxRate). For this WOD, I also did not do anything differently. 

[Link to Invoice1 repo](https://github.com/bvytr/ITM352_F22_repo/tree/main/WODs/Invoice1)

###Invoice2
Since I became much more comfortable working with conditional statements through labs, I was able to complete this WOD at Rx time on my first try. I had no difficulties, but that was only possible because I had learned from my mistakes in the lab assignments to be more careful of the ordering of conditional statements and to specify upper and lower limits of conditions. Again, I did not do anything differently for this WOD. 

[Link to Invoice2 repo](https://github.com/bvytr/ITM352_F22_repo/tree/main/WODs/Invoice2)

###SmartPhoneProducts2
It took me two attempts to complete the SmartPhoneProducts2 WOD at Rx time. For my first attempt, I completed at Av time due to my misunderstanding of template literals. However, if I had not completed Lab7 before attempting the WOD, I think that I would have had a lot of trouble trying to complete under Av or Rx time. Despite having prior coding experience, this was my first time working with template literals and the eval() function. Before, I would always encase expressions in parentheses and used an absurd amount of single and double quotation marks to properly format my code. I find using template literals to be much easier and using the eval() function to be less time consuming and allows for code to be more adaptable. I did not do anything differently for this WOD, unless completing Lab7 before attempting the WOD counts, because I believe that my completion was possible due to understanding how template literals and the eval() function worked. 

[Link to SmartPhoneProducts2 repo](https://github.com/bvytr/ITM352_F22_repo/tree/main/WODs/SmartPhoneProducts2)

##Conclusion
What I have learned so far from the 5 WODs that I will continue doing in the future is to use Live Server and Auto Save, to read all of the instructions beforehand, and to organize my code as I go along. 

For those who are not aware, when in VS Code, under the File tab, there is an option to Auto Save code with every change made to the file without having to manually save the file. Also, running code on a Live Server will show immediate changes without having to refresh the browser. I found that using both Live Server and Auto Save not only saved time, but also allowed me to better debug my code and complete WODs with more efficiency. It also eliminated instances where I forgot to save my code and was left to wonder why the browser displayed no changes. 

In addition, I found that reading through all of the instructions, including the hints and the example tables and diagrams, helped tremendously. Sometimes, there are hints located at the bottom of the page that are useful to complete tasks at the top of the page. There are also times where I need to inspect the page before attempting to do the WOD in order to understand the format of what I need to code. Looking through all of this beforehand saved a lot of time and spared me from any confusions when I started the assignment. 

Lastly, I have gotten into the habit of organizing my code for better readability. Whether it is through soft-wrapping longer lines of code to fit the window size, using the Beautify extension to indent my code, separating long lines of code into separate lines, or commenting on sections, I have done my best to make sure that my code is nice and organized so that myself, and others, can easily understand its purpose and flow. 
