---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4: Progress in Programming"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-07
published: true
labels:
  - Assignment 1
  - MIS
---
### 1. My programming skills have greately improved in the following ways:

After completing Assignment 1 and all labs and WODs up until now, my debugging and problem solving skills have definitely improved. I have become more efficient in finding errors in my code by utilizing error messages and the console. I have also learned to rely on the Internet and key word searches to find solutions and examples. Especially with Assignment 1, I spent a lot of individual time learning about the different functionalities of express. I also noticed that my commenting has gotten much more detailed and specific. Even if it is for simple clarifications, such as what a variable stands for or what is the purpose of a specific if-statement, I found that leaving as many comments as I can not only helps others understand my code, but also helps future me when I come back to that code for reference. 

### 2. I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

I need to be more meticulous with my variable usage. A simple, but persistent, problem that I faced in Assignment 1 was caused by duplicate use of the variable 'i'. In one of my for loops to iterate through the products array, I stated: for (i = 0; i < products.length; i++). In another instance of that loop in the same file, I stated: for (i in products). Because I had used 'i' twice in my code, I ran into a lot of issues attaining sticky input boxes. It was not until the very last day of Assignment 1 that I was able to fix this issue by using a simple 'let'. It does not only apply to my variable usage, but I believe that I should also work to improve my declaring and naming conventions overall.

### 3. I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:

I found that the WODs are extremely helpful in pushing me to solve problems more efficiently. I watched, I believe, two screencasts, one for the Store1 WOD and for SmartPhoneProducts3. The WODs were a great way for me to not only implement what was taught in labs and in class, but also a way for me to learn new concepts on my own. And since I liked to challenge myself, I made it a goal for me to finish all of the WODs under Rx time, which was difficult, but very satisfying. 

### 4. The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:

The labs were very useful in helping me learn new concepts and complete Assignment 1. However, since there were lots of instances where we had to complete a majority of the lab exercises on our own time, I am not able to say that I completed them with confidence. The labs introduced completely new concepts that are easier to understand when demonstrated by someone who understands them. But since we had to complete them on our own, I had a hard time fully grasping the concepts and testing out the code because I did not know if understanding of them was accurate or if I had misinterpreted the instructions.

### 5. I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:

I felt very accomplished after finishing Assignment 1. Once I got everything to work and uploaded my site to the server, I felt like a mountain was lifted off of my shoulders. In the beginning, I was very lost. I had attempted to start Assignment 1 early, before we had gotten to the Server Side Processing Lab. After the lab, I was able to complete Assignment 1 with minimal difficulties, but a lot of trivial errors which were thankfully resolved. As I am typing this E4, I have already started on Assignment 2 and I can say that I am ready to work on Assignment 2 and confident that I can get good results.  

### 6. I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

One aspect that I think can be improved on is the screencasts. Although I did not use a lot of them, for the ones that I did use, I found that the directions on the website did not match with the demonstrations in the screencast. I think that this is not a major issue for the earlier WODs, but for the final few WODs, I think that having updated screencasts can help students better grasp the concepts and prepare for Assignment 1. I also think that the structure of the WODs can be time consuming. Rather than recording a 20-30+ minutes video that takes over an hour, with good Internet speed, to upload, maybe students can opt to comment on their code to show their understanding. Learning to comment early on in the class helps develop a commenting habit and allows for better code structuring over voiceovers. 

### 7. What helps me the most in class are (WODs, labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc)

The WODs, labs, and class readings have helped me the most in class. I liked how the WODs and labs built up to Assignment 1 and how their difficulty gradually increased at a doable pace. I also relied a lot on the readings because I was able to learn about a lot of concepts that we did not use in class. At times, these concepts helped me better understand what we were doing and gave me options for when Assignment 1 came along. I also had a chance to work with a few of my classmates, helping them debug their code, which in return helped me better understand my code. We skimmed through HTML and CSS in the beginning of the semester, so for those who only began coding with this class, it could be quite jarring to jump into making an aesthetically pleasing website while also incorporating JavaScript. I am glad that I was able to apply what I liked doing most, HTML and CSS, to help classmates with formatting their sites while re-enforcing my own skills. 
