---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-21
published: true
labels:
  - Assignment 2
  - MIS
---
### 1. Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page fro further details.

Assignment 2 built on Assignment 1 and required us to add a log-in, register, and edit log-in information alongside with the product display and invoice. When first accessing the site, users can only view products. After their values are validated on the server, users are then directed to a log-in page where they can either log-in with an existing account or register for a new account. If the user inputs the correct credentials, they can choose to go to the invoice or edit their information. A crucial component of this assignment was validating the user's email, password, and name in addition to carrying over the quantities that the user inputted on the products display page over to the invoice. For more information about Assignment 2, click [here](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html). For more information about E5, click [here](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html). 

### 2. What did you learn about this assignment?

I became a lot more familiar with different data types through Assignment 2. Before, I only had a brief understanding of arrays, objects, and variables. With Assignment 2, I was able to better differentiate between them and decide the best time in which I should utilize each one. I also learned a lot more about node.js and regex. In order to encrypt the user's password, I had to do individual research into the crypto module and was pleasantly surprised at how easy it was to implement. I also spent a lot of time understanding regex before I implemented it in my code. Although I was able to find stack overflow examples and could have copied and pasted the code, I felt a lot better after I dissected the regex and modified it to fit what I was aiming to achieve. I think that after this assignment, I am more comfortable with learning and implementing new concepts. 

### 3. Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).

I did not work with a partner.

### 4. How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?

For this assignment, myself and a classmate reserved a study room at Hamilton during the weekend. Although we mostly sat in silent and worked on our individual projects, it was very helpful to talk to each other when we ran into any issues. Not only were we able to brainstorm different ways in which we can approach the assignment's requirements, but we also provided each other with another set of eyes to debug errors. Although I was able to work out the log-in, registration, and edit aspects of the assignment on my own, I needed help with my individual requirement, which I received from the professor through email and during class.

### 5. How was developing this assignment different than Assignment 1?

Assignment 1 was the introduction to retrieving form data using POST and GET methods. Assignment 2 forced me to expand on what I learned in Assignment 1 to strategically retrieve data and redirect the user based on several conditions. This assignment was less about learning new things and more about seeing how I can use what I previously learned in a more advantageous way. 

### 6. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing), (c) testing and debugging

I would say that I spent about 50% of my time thinking about how to do something, 20% writing code, and 30% testing and debugging. For this assignment, I physically drew out the path that the user would have to take. I drew the different files, connected them together to demonstrate "response.redirect()", and noted down the data that was being sent from one file to another. If I was not able to solve something, I spent a lot of time unconsciously thinking about how I can approach the issue the next time I sat down to code. When it came to it, I coded my idea and tested it along the way. 

### 7. Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?

I started on Assignment 2 much earlier than I did for Assignment 1, which proved to be really beneficial and less stressing. I was also to complete the assignment's requirement (log-in, registration, edit, and validation) relatively quick, and was surprised at how easy Assignment 1 seems, especially with the amount of form passing that I did in Assignment 2. Something that did not work well was my time management with my individual requirement. I did not expect my individual requirement to be such a challenge when I first looked at it. However, because it required me to add additional components here and there to my code, which was not needed for Assignment 2's basic requirements, it took longer than expected for me to complete it. 

### 8. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?

If I could go back in time and do things differently, I would better allocate my time between my classes. I should have completed my assignments for other classes early on or spend less time being frustrated with my code. On multiple occasions, I would sit in one place coding for so long that it would be night time and I would have no energy left to do my other homework. This resulted in me submitting assignments last minute or putting less effort into them. 
