---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E6: Reflecting on Assignment 3"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-12-14
published: true
labels:
  - Assignment 3
  - MIS
---
#### 1. Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)

My ecommerce site is named after my Instagram page, vycstm, and sells custom shoes, colored shoelaces, and leather paint.

#### 2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?

I am glad to say that I was able to complete all the features that I set out to do in the beginning. Becuase I wanted to make my site responsive and have a consistent design throughout, I heavily relied on w3schools How To tutorials as a reference to make a responsive and sticky navbar, a side opening cart, and other features like my search bar and home page timeline.

#### 3. Describe what you are most proud of about your system:

I am most proud of my shopping cart. In the beginning, I struggled to carry out my vision of an on-page shopping cart and was very close to giving up because I did not find any references for what I imagined. However, I was able to figure it out by luckily stumbling on w3schools How To tutorials. I was also very proud of myself for completing this assigment according to my vision and be able to say that I made this to display the products of my side hobby.

#### 4. Describe what you are least happy with your system:

I was planning on attempting the other IRs and the extra credit assignments, but due to the time that I spent on my cart, the site design, and on other obligations, I was unable to even complete a single one. 

#### 5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?

I found this assignment less difficult than assignment 2 because all of the new features that were required were simple and could easily be found on the Internet. The cookies and sessions were easy to implement and the nodemailer portion was only frustrating before I figured out that it could only work on the class server. The only part that I spent a lot of time on for this assignment was the overall design of the site because I had a clear goal in mind and was set in carrying it out. 

#### 6. When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?

When I ran into a problem, I relied on the Internet and my peers. A lot of my problems were due to different data types being passed from the server to the client side, which, in the end, enabled me to better understand and learn a lot more about parsing data types. I also had difficulty figuring out my IR, even though I found a tutorial, and was able to understand the code with help from my classmate.

#### 7. Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?

The Assignment 3 code examples worked very well for me because I was able to use and reference almost all of them to develop my site. Once I went through the examples line by line and was able to understand them, I was able to tweak them to fit with my code and add in more features, such as the number of users and changing the login button to the user's name. 

#### 8. Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?

I started on this assignment later than I wanted to because it was during a week where I had multiple presentations and report due. My time management was inefficient and I ended up finishing this assignment on time thanks to the Professor's extension. 

#### 9. What did you learn from doing this assignment?

Aside from learning how to use sessions and cookies, I learned how to use and manipulate w3schools resources to fit with what I want. I was very happy to have stumbled upon the How To tab and had a fun time looking through all of the different design options.

#### 10. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?

I would start on this assignment much earlier than I did. I think that if I did so, I would be able to implement more IRs and extra credit assignments or further personalize my site.

#### 11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

Funnily enough, I spent more time, 50%, thinking about how to do something, 30% writing code, and 20% testing and debugging. A lot of my solutions came to me as I went about my day. I would suddenly think of a new way to approach the issue as I was eating or walking, similarly to Assignment 2, and would test it out as soon as I start coding. I also spent less time debugging than writing code because a majority of my problems were minor or css-related.

#### 12. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)

I worked by myself for this assignment. 



